---
uid: kb-purchase-options-and-payment-terms
title: Purchase Options and Payment Terms
summary: Varigence's various purchase options, as well as default payment methods, payment terms, and flexibility therein.
varigenceProduct: Shared
varigenceArticleType: KnowledgeBase
---
Varigence offers a range of data warehousing and business intelligence software designed to cater to the diverse needs of our customers and their organizations. As such, Varigence offers numerous licensing options, purchase options, and payment terms and methods.  
 

# Purchase Options

The quickest way to acquire an application license is to purchase through the [Varigence store](http://www.varigence.com/store) and pay with a credit card. Upon purchase approval, users will immediately receive new licenses via email.  
  
Users can also generate quotes through the store. Instead of selecting “Checkout,” select “Send Quote” and a quote will be emailed to the requestor for internal processing and/or organizational approval. Our team can process and assist users with any quote generated autonomously through the storefront.   
  
Quotes can also be provided by contacting Varigence Sales ([sales@varigence.com](mailto:sales@varigence.com)) directly. Our sales team members can assist with any application or purchase-related inquiries and generate any permutation of products and services that might be needed.  
  
A purchase order in response to a quote is not required. Varigence can proceed with a transaction with verbal/written approval from an organization’s decision maker, though many organizations choose to generate and share their own internal documentation to accompany a sale.  
 

# Default Payment Terms

Varigence standard payment terms are Net 30 days. **Payment in full** is required thirty (30) days after the date of the invoice.  
 

# Flexibility in Payment Terms

Varigence understands all businesses have unique needs and is open to discussing and agreeing upon different payment terms. Non-standard payment terms can be requested for an entire account or for a one-off individual transaction.  
  
It is crucial that any deviation from the default payment terms are proposed and approved prior to the production of a purchase order or invoice. This ensures clarity and mutual agreement between Varigence and our valued customers.  
 

# Payment Methods

Varigence accepts numerous payment methods. Customers can remit payment by any of the following methods:

*   Credit card (on invoices not exceeding, $10,000.00 USD)
*   Check
*   Wire transfer
*   ACH

All requisite payment information will be provided on invoices generated by Varigence. Varigence Sales will work to provide any validations or approvals as needed by an organization’s internal payment processes.  
 

# Contact Information

Contact [sales@varigence.com](mailto:sales@varigence.com) to discuss any request for flexibility in payment terms.  
  
Varigence is committed to working collaboratively with our customers to find a payment solution that meets your business needs.