---
theme: "White"
customTheme : "varigence"
transition: "none"
highlightTheme: "Github"
center: false
---

# BimlFlex Implementer Training

## Environment Setup and Configuration

<small>Copyright &copy; Varigence 2018 - [Varigence](https://varigence.com) / [@varigence](http://twitter.com/varigence)</small>

note:
Welcome to this BimlFlex Implementer Training
This training will walk through the following content throughout x number of days
About: Walkthrough of how to install and setup the modelling and development environment for BimlFlex

---

# The BimlFlex components

* Software
* databases
* custom components

---

# Installing BimlStudio

* Download
* Install
* 32/64-bit
* License Key

---

# Installing BimlFlex

* Download
* Install
* 32/64-bit
* License Key

---

# SSIS Custom Components

* Required for SSIS Development and servers

---

# BimlFlex metadata database

* Contains all metadata
* important to backup

---

# BimlCatalog orchestration and audit database

* Contains all audit logging
* Contains all historical parameter values
* important to backup

---

# Build versions

Configuring the BimlStudio project to match the SQL Server environment

---

# BimlFlex Options

Configuring Bundle options to control what is built/included in the project

---

# BimlFlex metadata

* Database
* Metadata Connection
* Customer/version

---

# BimlFlex Configurations

* Options for configurations
* Metadata columns included in the data warehouse

---

# BimlFlex Settings

* Settings in the settings sheet
* Controlling behavior through configurations and settings

---

# Overriding behavior through Attributes

For certain projects/batches/tables/etc

---

# Overriding Behavior though Extension Points

for certain common overrides and across the architecture

---

# Environment Prerequisites

The BimlFlex application is an on-premises installation and uses a local installation of BimlFlex and BimlStudio for development. It requires a SQL Server for hosting databases and uses SSIS for the ETL process.

For the training the following is needed:

* SQL Server 2016/2017 installation with SQL Server engine and SSIS/Integration services
* Windows-based development machine for local installation of BimlStudio and BimlFlex
* Excel 2013-2016 for managing and modelling metadata
* Visual Studio 2015/2017 with SSDT and SSIS components
* SQL Server Management Studio or similar for managing databases and running SQL Scripts

---

# Setup and installation of BimlStudio and BimlFlex

The installation and setup of the BimlFlex environment includes downloading the required applications, installing and activating them on a development machine.

---

# Setup databases

The database setup phase creates the databases required for BimlFlex:

1. BimlFlex, metadata repository
1. BimlCatalog, orchestration and audit/logging repository

BimlStudio has an integrated database creation process to deploy these databases

---

# Upgrade databases and BimlFlex Bundle version

BimlStudio has an integrated, online feature to upgrade BimlFlex projects and databases to the latest version. Allow the upgrade process to download the latest Bundle if available and deploy the upgrades to project and databases

---

# Creating a BimlFlex project

The BimlFlex project is based on BimlStudio and is a combination of project files on disk and project metadata stored in the BimlFlex metadata database.

---

# Creating the scaffolding metadata

The first time an empty project is used it allows the creation of sample metadata. This is the base of the initial training.

---

# Import of source metadata

Source metadata management and modelling is done through the BimlFlex Excel based modelling tool. it allows import of a database source into the metadata repository and modelling of the metadata to prepare it for a data mart dimensional model or a Data Vault based integration layer.

---

# Building databases, tables and SSIS packages for Source to Staging

Once the metadata from the source has been added to the BimlFlex metadata repository it is possible to use BimlFlex to build the required Staging, Persistent Staging databases and tables as well as generating the SSIS project to load the Source Data to the data warehouse. Trialing this at this stage allows the validation that the end to end process for SSIS works as expected.

---

# Configuration of BimlFlex

The BimlFlex framework behavior is controlled by a comprehensive set of configurations and settings. This section walks through the configurations and highlights the options available.

---

# Modelling of source metadata

Most automation features in BimlFlex are built on modelling the metadata to provide the Data Warehouse required. BimlFlex allows a number of modelling approaches and scenarios to easily build the Data Warehouse to the specification desired.

The training illustrates this by applying modelling to the source metadata.

Depending on the architecture chosen the staging layer is prepared for either Data Vault loads or data mart loads the configuration and structures of the staging area will differ slightly. Data Vault uses pre-processing to add hashed keys in to the staging layer.

---

# Data Vault Architecture

## Creating a Data Vault based integration layer

BimlFlex supports acceleration of Data Vault constructs from business keys and relationships in the source metadata. based on the model a comprehensive Raw Data Vault layer can be created with ease.

---

# Adding Business Data Vault performance constructs

The Point in Time and Bridge table structures are used in Data Vault to make the Data Vault easier to query and to improve query performance.

* Point in Time, PIT tables are used to create timelines for all changes in all or some Satellites attached to a business entity in a Hub.
* Bridge tables are used to link business entities in Hubs through their link tables into easy to query constructs.

---

# Dimensional Model from Data Vault

Based on the PIT and Bridge tables in the Data Vault layer a set of Fact and Dimensional views are created that are used to populate a dimensional model in a data mart in the presentation layer.

---

# Thank You

## Let us know: #Biml

<br/>

BimlFlex sales: [sales@varigence.com](mailto:sales@varigence.com)

BimlFlex enterprise support: [bimlflex-support@varigence.com](mailto:bimlflex-support@varigence.com)

BimlFlex Documentation: [https://varigence.com/Documentation/BimlFlex](https://varigence.com/Documentation/BimlFlex)

<small>Copyright &copy; Varigence 2018 - [Varigence](https://varigence.com) / [@varigence](http://twitter.com/varigence)</small>