---
theme: "White"
customTheme : "varigence"
transition: "none"
highlightTheme: "Github"
center: false
---

# BimlFlex Implementer Training

## Introduction

<small>Copyright &copy; Varigence 2018 - [Varigence](https://varigence.com) / [@varigence](http://twitter.com/varigence)</small>

note:
Welcome to this BimlFlex Implementer Training
This session introduces the source to staging/persistent staging patterns
Model metadata and configure different sources
architecture choices for different staging and persistent staging approaches

---


detailed walkthrough of how to model and setup a source to staging load.

considerations for architectures, set ups, different types of staging/psa

database/blob storage

persisting tables and columns in psa

delta loads and parameters/ct/cdc

built in source components, supported sources oob

custom load patterns for custom sources


---

# Import Source Metadata

Importing existing metadata from database connections is a fast and easy way to start modelling data from a source to a Data Warehouse. By reading existing metadata instead of manually entering it or manually creating tables for the Data Warehouse it is possible to increase development speed and quality.

The Excel Metadata Editor provides a Ribbon Tab for working with the BimlFlex metadata.

To import metadata, the connection information to the source has to be valid. Validate the connection strings in the connections sheet.

It also needs a properly defined Batch. A Batch is the orchestration container used for load processes.

It also needs a properly defined Project. A Project corresponds to an SSIS project.

Once the connections, batches and projects are validated the metadata can be imported.

BimlFlex will read all specified metadata from the chosen connection to the Excel sheets.

---

The metadata import dialog provides a set of options for managing

* What to import
* Naming conventions
* Inferred metadata
* Options
* how to treat already imported Metadata

Once all settings have been reviewed the import function will read the metadata from the source into the Excel sheets.
Tables are added to the Objects sheet. Columns are added to the Columns sheet.

Once validated the metadata can be written to the metadata repository.

---

# Detailed Steps

1. Open the Excel Metadata Editor from BimlStudio.
    The Excel Metadata Editor provides a Ribbon Tab for working with the BimlFlex metadata.
1. Validate the metadata connection information.
1. To get the latest metadata, click the top part of the Get All Entities Button to load all sheets with the data from the repository.
1. Validate the connection strings in the connections sheet.
    The metadata import will use the connection to the AdventureWorksLT source database. This connection has been defined as a source and with the `AWLT` Record Source code.
1. Validate Connections, Batches and Projects sheets.
1. Click the Import Metadata button to display the dialog.
1. Choose `AdventureWorks LT` as the source and `EXT_AWLT` as the destination project.
    BimlFlex will read all available metadata. Use the filtering options for large sources.
1. Deselect the `dbo` schema. Deselect the `import views` option to only import metadata from the tables in the `SalesLT` schema.
1. Click Import to read the metadata from the source into the Excel sheets.
    Tables are added to the `Objects` sheet. Columns are added to the `Columns` sheet.
1. To write the imported metadata to the repository, click the `Set Current Sheet` on the `Objects` sheet and on the `Columns` sheet.
1. To validate that all metadata is available, click get all entities to reload everything from the repository.
    The `Objects` sheet now shows all imported tables and the `Columns` sheet shows all columns for all tables.

---

# Building Databases, Tables and SSIS packages for source to staging in BimlFlex

In BimlStudio, the BimlFlex project is able to create SQL DDL scripts to create databases and tables for the Data Warehouse. These can be run on the database server to create all artefacts required to run the training process.

BimlFlex can also build out a Visual Studio SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT) Project with all database artefacts. This feature is enabled by default and this project can be used to deploy the databases and tables.

Once the tables are available it is possible to use the build process in BimlStudio to build the SSIS project and packages for the source to staging and persistent staging loads.

The creation and building of the initial source to staging will validate that all local configurations and build tools are in place and working as expected. it will also validate access to the database server used for the data warehouse.

The default build process assumes that Windows authentication is used to access the databases. Should SQL logins be needed the project needs to be configured with project parameters for connection strings. This is outside the scope of the training but [reference documentation is available here](../user-guide/deployment-guide.md)

---

# Detailed Steps

The following detailed steps walks through the creation of database scripts and building of the SSIS project:

## Refresh metadata

To start, click the `Refresh Metadata` button to make sure BimlFlex has the latest metadata

## Creating SQL DDL scripts to create databases and Tables

In BimlStudio, navigate to the `BimlFlex` tab. In the `Generate Scripts` dropdown, choose `Create Table Script`. BimlFlex will generate the database, schema and table create scripts. Copy the script or open the file in Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio and execute them on the target SQL Server.

## Building SSIS packages in BimlStudio

Once the tables are available it is possible to use the build process in BimlStudio to create the SSIS project and packages for the load process.

In BimlStudio, navigate to the `Build & Deploy` tab, choose the `32-bit` build option in the dropdown unless there is a local installation of 64 bit SQL Server and click the `Build` anvil and hammer icon.

## Opening and reviewing the SSIS project in Visual BimlStudio

The output folder for generated artefacts is configurable, the default location is a folder called `output` in the BimlFlex project location.

In the output folder there are multiple folders for the created artefacts. BimlFlex creates default SSIS projects to create databases, schemas and tables as well as expanded code for both Biml and SQL. The load project is located in a folder with the same name as the project name defined in the Metadata project sheet.

For the training this will be a folder called `EXT_AWLT`. Open the `EXT_AWLT_Project.dtproj` project file in Visual Studio 2015 to review the generated packages. To test the load, run the `EXT_AWLT_Batch.dtsx` SSIS package. This package will call the individual Table load packages and load the data from the source database to the staging and persistent staging databases in the Data Warehouse.

---





# Thank You

## Let us know: #Biml

<br/>

BimlFlex sales: [sales@varigence.com](mailto:sales@varigence.com)

BimlFlex enterprise support: [bimlflex-support@varigence.com](mailto:bimlflex-support@varigence.com)

BimlFlex Documentation: [https://varigence.com/Documentation/BimlFlex](https://varigence.com/Documentation/BimlFlex)

<small>Copyright &copy; Varigence 2018 - [Varigence](https://varigence.com) / [@varigence](http://twitter.com/varigence)</small>